The guest video of today is a bit different than normal,
so prepare yourself for music, emoji and be told that you are good,
when Alex from Play The Mind sings a song about translations.
Alex, put it on.
♫ Give your hard and soul to me
♫ and life will always be
♫ La Vie En Rose. ♫
You have just heard a contrafact.
That is when the lyrics of a song have changed, but the music remains the same.
Parody songs are a good example of contrafacts, just like translations.
But unlike parodies, translations of songs often give the wrong impression
that they stay true to the original.
For instance,
what I just sang is part of an English version of a French song
La Vie En Rose by Edith Piaf.
The French text of what I sang is,
"Et dès que je l'aperçois alors your sens and moi, mon cœur qui bat."
The meaning of these words has nothing to do with what I just sang.
In fact, the English version ends briefly, bilingual,
sex-loving and sung directly towards the beloved,
which characteristics are not present in the original French version.
And this song is not the only case where this happens.
With every translation of a song,
there is a conflict between the meaning of the text and the way it sounds when it is pronounced.
If you were to translate a song purely based on meaning,
you get a text with counting that follows syllables,
that naturally do not acc-ENT chalk-GEN when they are pronounced
So, somewhere you have to sacrifice meaning to keep a good sound.
And who is guilty of making a translation of a song so complicated?
That is phonology.
The phonology of a language is like its musical DNA
and it has a primordial influence
on how a melody of a song is written in a certain language.
Even the specific way a baby cries has to do with how his mother speaks.
There are two things that matter in phonology.
The phonemes are the vowels and consonants that make the speech.
and the prosody of a language is the way the phonemes come together
to syllables, and sentences and their pronunciation
to convey meaning there.
It is the prosody of English that makes the difference between saying
"Hey, you're HOT", and say "Hey, YOU'RE hot."
But, back to music.
It is the phonological system of a language
that gives shape to the melody of a song originally written in that language.
And if that song translates into a language
with a completely different phonological system,
something bad will sound.
For example: Some languages, such as Hindi or Italian,
are better suited for melismatic singing,
where several notes are sung about just a few vowels.
Here is an example in English:
♫ If I ..
♫ should stay ... ♫
That was Whitney Houston.
And other languages, such as German or Polish,
Are more suitable for syllabic singing.
Where you have a note per vowel.
♫ Freude schöner Götterfunken
♫ Daren aus Elysium! ♫
That was Ludwig van.
Gesundheit!
That is where the crux of the whole lies.
To convert the text from a syllabic language to a melismatic song
or visa-versa, sounds forced, artificial.
I am fully aware that no language is purely syllabic or purely melismatic,
but I emphasize these extremes to make clear my point.
A translation of a song may sound good, but it may be inaccurate in its meaning,
or can be accurate, but it sounds bad.
There is one.
But, how important are translations today?
Imagine:
About 80 million people worldwide speak Korean, but until today
is the most watched video on YouTube the Korean song 'Gangnam Style'
with more than 2.5 billion views.
This means that the majority of the audience probably has not understood a word from what was sung.
Sign up for Play the Mind for all kinds of videos about music theory and acoustics,
including one about the first 'mic drop'.
Next time, in the last guest video of this series,
we have something in the always popular genre of it
"That thing you eat is not what you think it is".
Until then.